# Ops Agent overview  |  Google Cloud Observability  |  Google Cloud Documentation

Source file: ops-agent-overview.html

The Ops Agent is the primary agent for collecting telemetry from your

Compute Engine instances. Combining the collection of logs, metrics, and

traces into a single process, the Ops Agent uses

for logs, which supports high-throughput logging, and the OpenTelemetry

Collector for

metrics and traces.

For information about installing the Ops Agent, see the following:

For Compute Engine instances, see

Installing the Ops Agent .

For Bare Metal Solution servers, see

Set up Ops Agent for Bare Metal Solution .

Ops Agent features

Overall features include:

Single download and installation/upgrade process.

Simple, unified, YAML-based configuration.

Support for standard Linux and Windows distros .

Proxy support.

Logging features

Logging features include:

Improved performance compared to the legacy Logging Agent:

High throughput capability, taking full advantage of multi-core architecture.

Efficient resource (e.g. memory, CPU) management.

Collecting logs from various sources :

Standard system logs (

/var/log/syslog and

/var/log/messages for Linux,

Windows Event Log) collected with no configuration.

File-based logs with customizable paths and refresh interval.

Journald daemon / systemd logs.

Logs over TCP protocol.

Logs over Forward protocol (used by Fluent Bit and Fluentd).

Flexible processing:

Parse text logs into structured logs: JSON-based and regular-expression-based parsing.

log entries by removing, renaming, or setting fields.

logs based on labels and regular expressions.

Detect and concatenate multiline

language-exception logs from Java, Python, and Golang.

Third-party application support

Curated third-party application log integration that recognizes common app log

file paths and formats.

Monitoring features

Monitoring features include:

System metrics collected with no configuration. Metrics collected include:

cpu metrics

disk metrics

iis metrics (Windows only)

interface metrics

gpu metrics (Linux only)

memory metrics

mssql metrics (Windows only)

pagefile metrics (Windows

only)

swap metrics

network metrics

processes metrics

agent self metrics :

Third-party application support

Curated integrations for third-party application

metrics , which

collect common app metrics and offer sample dashboards and alert policies.

Collection of

Prometheus metrics from applications running on Compute Engine.

Collection of

OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) metrics and traces from applications

instrumented with OpenTelemetry SDKs .

Collection of

NVIDIA Data Center GPU Manager (DCGM) metrics .

Note: Some metrics are only available on VMs running on Linux. See detailed

metrics definition and whether they are Linux only in the agent

metrics page.

The Cloud Monitoring Metrics Management page provides information

that can help you control the amount you spend on billable metrics

without affecting observability. The Metrics Management page reports the

following information:

Ingestion volumes for both byte- and sample-based billing, across metric

domains and for individual metrics.

Data about labels and cardinality of metrics.

Number of reads for each metric.

Use of metrics in alerting policies and custom dashboards.

Rate of metric-write errors.

You can also use the Metrics Management page to

exclude unneeded metrics ,

eliminating the cost of ingesting them.

For more information about the Metrics Management page, see

View and manage metric usage .

Trace features

Trace features include:

Collection of OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) traces from

applications instrumented with OpenTelemetry SDKs .

Virtual machine instances

You can install the Ops Agent on Compute Engine instances.

To create a Compute Engine instance, see the

Compute Engine getting started guide .

Note:

The Ops Agent is not supported on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)

instances or on-premises machines.

The following types of VM instances belong to managed services that implement

service-specific

support. Don't try to manually install or configure the Ops Agent on them:

App Engine standard has built-in

Monitoring support. Agents aren't needed.

App Engine flexible environment instances have pre-installed agents

with service-specific configurations.

Dataflow instances have

pre-installed

legacy

Monitoring agents with service-specific configurations.

Dataproc instances prior to

image version 2.2 have pre-installed

legacy

Monitoring agents with service-specific configurations.

You can install the

Ops Agent on Dataproc clusters

that use image version 2.2 and later to collect syslog logs and

host metrics. For more information, see

Dataproc 2.2.x release versions .

Google Kubernetes Engine node instances:

GKE on

Google Cloud clusters are configured to

collect logs and metrics with

Logging and Monitoring by default. You

can also configure metric and log collection for existing container

clusters. For information, see

Configuring logging and

monitoring for GKE .

Google Distributed Cloud

instances have an integrated logging and monitoring solution that

collects status about system components. For information, see

Logging and monitoring .

Operating systems

The Ops Agent supports the following operating systems on compatible VM

instances. For information about Arm VM instances, see

Support for Compute Engine Arm VMs .

Linux operating systems

The agent supports the following Linux operating systems:

Note: To use Cloud Logging on VMs with Container-Optimized OS, follow

Using Cloud Logging with Container-Optimized OS instead.

RHEL 8: rhel-8, rhel-8-6-sap-ha, rhel-8-8-sap-ha, rhel-8-10-sap-ha

RHEL 9: rhel-9

RHEL 10: rhel-10

CentOS Stream 10

Debian 11 (Bullseye)

Debian 12 (Bookworm)

Debian 13 (Trixie)

Deep Learning VM Images based on Debian 11 (Bullseye)

Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish): ubuntu-2204-lts, ubuntu-minimal-2204-lts

Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (Noble Numbat): ubuntu-2404-lts-amd64, ubuntu-minimal-2404-lts-amd64

Ubuntu 25.10 (Questing Quokka): ubuntu-2510-amd64, ubuntu-minimal-2510-amd64

SLES 12: sles-12, sles-12-sp5-sap

SLES 15: sles-15, sles-15-sp3-sap, sles-15-sp4-sap, sles-15-sp5-sap,

sles-15-sp6-sap

Support for Compute Engine Arm VMs

The Ops Agent supports Compute Engine C4A and Tau T2A

Arm VM instances. The Ops Agent is

supported for Arm VMs on the following OS images:

Debian 12 (Bookworm): Ops Agent version 2.44.0

Debian 13 (Trixie): Ops Agent version 2.61.0

Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish): Ops Agent version 2.42.0

Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (Noble Numbat): Ops Agent version 2.47.0

Ubuntu 25.10 (Questing Quokka): Ops Agent version 2.62.0

RHEL 9: Ops Agent version 2.40.0

RHEL 10: Ops Agent version 2.64.0

Rocky Linux 8: Ops Agent version 2.51.0

Rocky Linux 9: Ops Agent version 2.40.0

Rocky Linux 10: Ops Agent version 2.64.0

CentOS Stream 10: Ops Agent version 2.64.0

SLES 15: Ops Agent version 2.43.0

The Ops Agent is supported on a subset of the images supported by

Compute Engine. For more information about Compute Engine Arm VMs,

see Creating and starting an Arm VM

instance .

Windows operating systems

Note:

n1-standard-1 virtual machines are too small to run Windows and the

Ops Agent, so you must use a larger VM.

The agent supports the following Windows operating systems:

Windows Server: windows-2016, windows-2019, windows-2022, windows-2025

Windows Server Core: windows-2016-core, windows-2019-core,

windows-20h2-core, windows-2022-core, windows-2025-core

Agent access requirements

Installing the agent requires access to the following DNS names:

Google Cloud package repository:

packages.cloud.google.com

Google downloads subdomain:

dl.google.com

Running the agent requires access to the following DNS names:

OAuth2 token server:

oauth2.googleapis.com

Earlier versions of the agent may require access to

www.googleapis.com

(full URL:

https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/token ).

If you're using an older version of the agent, it's recommended that you

upgrade your agent to the latest

version.

Monitoring APIs:

monitoring.googleapis.com

Logging APIs:

logging.googleapis.com

The agent uses TCP ports within the VM for inter-process communication. The

following ports, which don't need to be open externally, must be available to

the agent on your VM:

20201

20202

Support policy

The Ops Agent is supported according to the

support time horizons policy .

If you install the Ops Agent, then you might be charged for the metrics,

logs, or traces that the agent sends to your Google Cloud project. For pricing

information, see Google Cloud Observability pricing .

To collect OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) traces, you must configure the

agent to collect traces from an instrumented application; for more

information, see Collect (OTLP) traces with the Ops Agent .
